---
title: Zalando SE (OTCMKTS:ZLNDY) Sees Large Decline in Short Interest
url: https://www.marketbeat.com/instant-alerts/zalando-se-otcmktszlndy-sees-large-decline-in-short-interest-2025-05-28/
published_date: 2025-05-30T22:00:13.261000
collected_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.909686
source: Marketbeat
source_url: https://www.marketbeat.com
author: MarketBeat
description: Zalando SE ( OTCMKTS:ZLNDY - Get Free Report) was the target of a significant decline in short interest during the month of May. As of May 15th, there was short interest totalling 500 shares, a decline of 94.9% from the April 30th total of 9,800 shares. Based on an average trading volume of...
language: en
---

# Zalando SE (OTCMKTS:ZLNDY) Sees Large Decline in Short Interest

*By MarketBeat*

Zalando SE ( OTCMKTS:ZLNDY - Get Free Report) was the target of a significant decline in short interest during the month of May. As of May 15th, there was short interest totalling 500 shares, a decline of 94.9% from the April 30th total of 9,800 shares. Based on an average trading volume of...

Zalando SE ( OTCMKTS:ZLNDY - Get Free Report) was the target of a significant decline in short interest during the month of May. As of May 15th, there was short interest totalling 500 shares, a decline of 94.9% from the April 30th total of 9,800 shares. Based on an average trading volume of 27,900 shares, the days-to-cover ratio is currently 0.0 days. Approximately 0.0% of the company's stock are sold short. Zalando Price Performance Shares of OTCMKTS:ZLNDY traded down $0.73 during trading on Wednesday, hitting $17.72. 5,494 shares of the company were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 12,893. The company has a market capitalization of $9.35 billion, a P/E ratio of 42.19 and a beta of 1.71. Zalando has a 1-year low of $11.35 and a 1-year high of $20.64. The business's 50 day moving average is $17.93 and its 200-day moving average is $17.45. The company has a quick ratio of 0.88, a current ratio of 1.33 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.19. Zalando ( OTCMKTS:ZLNDY - Get Free Report) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Tuesday, May 6th. The company reported $0.02 EPS for the quarter. The business had revenue of $2.55 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.63 billion. Zalando had a net margin of 1.97% and a return on equity of 8.34%. Equities analysts forecast that Zalando will post 0.5 earnings per share for the current year. Analysts Set New Price Targets Separately, Citigroup restated a "buy" rating on shares of Zalando in a report on Tuesday, May 13th. Get Our Latest Stock Report on ZLNDY About Zalando ( Get Free Report) Zalando SE operates an online platform for fashion and lifestyle products. The company operates through Fashion Store and Offprice segments. It provides shoes, apparel, accessories, and beauty products with free delivery and returns, as well as various payment options. The company also sells its products through Lounge by Zalando; and brick-and-mortar outlet stores. Read More Five stocks we like better than Zalando How to Choose Top Rated Stocks Amer Sports: The New ONON and DECK of Consumer Discretionary? Top Biotech Stocks: Exploring Innovation Opportunities BigBear.ai: Risky AI Stock or Defense Tech Opportunity? Stock Splits, Do They Really Impact Investors? Toyota Supercharges Joby: $250M Capital Infusion Ignites Stock This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com. Should You Invest $1,000 in Zalando Right Now? Before you consider Zalando, you'll want to hear this. MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Zalando wasn't on the list. While Zalando currently has a Strong Buy rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys. View The Five Stocks Here Looking to profit from the electric vehicle mega-trend? Enter your email address and we'll send you our list of which EV stocks show the most long-term potential. Get This Free Report