---
title: Investors Heavily Search CAVA Group, Inc. (CAVA): Here is What You Need to Know
url: https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/investors-heavily-search-cava-group-inc-cava-here-what-you-need-know-0
published_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.433505
collected_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.433567
source: Nasdaq
source_url: https://www.nasdaq.com
author: Zacks
description: Cava Group (CAVA) is one of the stocks most watched by Zacks.com visitors lately. So, it might be a good idea to review some of the factors that might affect the near-term performance of the stock. Over the past month, shares of this Mediterranean restaurant chain have returned +16.4%,...
language: en
---

# Investors Heavily Search CAVA Group, Inc. (CAVA): Here is What You Need to Know

*By Zacks*

Cava Group (CAVA) is one of the stocks most watched by Zacks.com visitors lately. So, it might be a good idea to review some of the factors that might affect the near-term performance of the stock. Over the past month, shares of this Mediterranean restaurant chain have returned +16.4%,...

Cava Group (CAVA) is one of the stocks most watched by Zacks.com visitors lately. So, it might be a good idea to review some of the factors that might affect the near-term performance of the stock. Over the past month, shares of this Mediterranean restaurant chain have returned +16.4%, compared to the Zacks S&amp;P 500 composite's +4.3% change. During this period, the Zacks Retail - Restaurants industry, which Cava falls in, has gained 10.3%. The key question now is: What could be the stock's future direction? 
 While media releases or rumors about a substantial change in a company's business prospects usually make its stock 'trending' and lead to an immediate price change, there are always some fundamental facts that eventually dominate the buy-and-hold decision-making. Revisions to Earnings Estimates Here at Zacks, we prioritize appraising the change in the projection of a company's future earnings over anything else. That's because we believe the present value of its future stream of earnings is what determines the fair value for its stock. Our analysis is essentially based on how sell-side analysts covering the stock are revising their earnings estimates to take the latest business trends into account. When earnings estimates for a company go up, the fair value for its stock goes up as well. And when a stock's fair value is higher than its current market price, investors tend to buy the stock, resulting in its price moving upward. Because of this, empirical studies indicate a strong correlation between trends in earnings estimate revisions and short-term stock price movements. For the current quarter, Cava is expected to post earnings of $0.06 per share, indicating a change of +200% from the year-ago quarter. The Zacks Consensus Estimate has changed -0.6% over the last 30 days. The consensus earnings estimate of $0.50 for the current fiscal year indicates a year-over-year change of +138.1%. This estimate has remained unchanged over the last 30 days. 
 For the next fiscal year, the consensus earnings estimate of $0.61 indicates a change of +22.6% from what Cava is expected to report a year ago. Over the past month, the estimate has remained unchanged. Having a strong externally audited track record, our proprietary stock rating tool, the Zacks Rank, offers a more conclusive picture of a stock's price direction in the near term, since it effectively harnesses the power of earnings estimate revisions. Due to the size of the recent change in the consensus estimate, along with three other factors related to earnings estimates, Cava is rated Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). The chart below shows the evolution of the company's forward 12-month consensus EPS estimate: 12 Month EPS Projected Revenue Growth Even though a company's earnings growth is arguably the best indicator of its financial health, nothing much happens if it cannot raise its revenues. It's almost impossible for a company to grow its earnings without growing its revenue for long periods. Therefore, knowing a company's potential revenue growth is crucial. In the case of Cava, the consensus sales estimate of $225.54 million for the current quarter points to a year-over-year change of +27.3%. The $961.85 million and $1.2 billion estimates for the current and next fiscal years indicate changes of +32% and +24.9%, respectively. 
 Last Reported Results and Surprise History Cava reported revenues of $243.82 million in the last reported quarter, representing a year-over-year change of +38.9%. EPS of $0.15 for the same period compares with $0.06 a year ago. Compared to the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $235.13 million, the reported revenues represent a surprise of +3.7%. The EPS surprise was +36.36%. The company beat consensus EPS estimates in each of the trailing four quarters. The company topped consensus revenue estimates each time over this period. Valuation Without considering a stock's valuation, no investment decision can be efficient. In predicting a stock's future price performance, it's crucial to determine whether its current price correctly reflects the intrinsic value of the underlying business and the company's growth prospects. While comparing the current values of a company's valuation multiples, such as price-to-earnings (P/E), price-to-sales (P/S) and price-to-cash flow (P/CF), with its own historical values helps determine whether its stock is fairly valued, overvalued, or undervalued, comparing the company relative to its peers on these parameters gives a good sense of the reasonability of the stock's price. 
 The Zacks Value Style Score (part of the Zacks Style Scores system), which pays close attention to both traditional and unconventional valuation metrics to grade stocks from A to F (an An is better than a B; a B is better than a C; and so on), is pretty helpful in identifying whether a stock is overvalued, rightly valued, or temporarily undervalued. Cava is graded F on this front, indicating that it is trading at a premium to its peers. Click here to see the values of some of the valuation metrics that have driven this grade. Bottom Line The facts discussed here and much other information on Zacks.com might help determine whether or not it's worthwhile paying attention to the market buzz about Cava. However, its Zacks Rank #3 does suggest that it may perform in line with the broader market in the near term. 
 Zacks Names #1 Semiconductor Stock 
 
 It's only 1/9,000th the size of NVIDIA which skyrocketed more than +800% since we recommended it. NVIDIA is still strong, but our new top chip stock has much more room to boom. 
 
 With strong earnings growth and an expanding customer base, it's positioned to feed the rampant demand for Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Internet of Things. Global semiconductor manufacturing is projected to explode from $452 billion in 2021 to $803 billion by 2028. 
 See This Stock Now for Free &gt;&gt; Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report CAVA Group, Inc. (CAVA) : Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.