---
title: Zalando (XTRA:ZAL) - Stock Price, News & Analysis - Simply Wall St
url: https://simplywall.st/stocks/de/retail/etr-zal/zalando-shares
published_date: 2025-05-30T19:00:13.261000
collected_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.909234
source: Simplywall
source_url: https://simplywall.st
description: ZAL Stock Overview Operates an online platform for fashion and lifestyle products. More details Rewards Risk Analysis No risks detected for ZAL from our risk checks. My Notes Capture your thoughts, links and company narrative Community Narratives Create a narrative Narratives bring a range of...
language: en
---

# Zalando (XTRA:ZAL) - Stock Price, News & Analysis - Simply Wall St

ZAL Stock Overview Operates an online platform for fashion and lifestyle products. More details Rewards Risk Analysis No risks detected for ZAL from our risk checks. My Notes Capture your thoughts, links and company narrative Community Narratives Create a narrative Narratives bring a range of...

ZAL Stock Overview Operates an online platform for fashion and lifestyle products. More details Rewards Risk Analysis No risks detected for ZAL from our risk checks. My Notes Capture your thoughts, links and company narrative Community Narratives Create a narrative Narratives bring a range of perspectives from our community. Zalando SE Competitors Price History &amp; Performance Summary of share price highs, lows and changes for Zalando Historical stock prices Current Share Price €31.68 52 Week High €35.87 52 Week Low €15.95 Beta 1.61 1 Month Change -6.63% 3 Month Change 5.92% 1 Year Change 91.83% 3 Year Change -53.78% 5 Year Change -30.39% Change since IPO 47.35% Recent News &amp; Updates Recent updates Shareholder Returns ZAL DE Specialty Retail DE Market 7D 4.7% -0.8% 1.0% 1Y 91.8% 45.3% 12.7% Return vs Market: ZAL exceeded the German Market which returned 12.7% over the past year. Price Volatility Is ZAL's price volatile compared to industry and market? ZAL volatility ZAL Average Weekly Movement 5.0% Specialty Retail Industry Average Movement 5.9% Market Average Movement 4.8% 10% most volatile stocks in DE Market 11.6% 10% least volatile stocks in DE Market 2.3% Stable Share Price: ZAL has not had significant price volatility in the past 3 months compared to the German market. Volatility Over Time: ZAL's weekly volatility (6%) has been stable over the past year. About the Company Founded Employees CEO Website 2008 15,206 Robert Gentz corporate.zalando.de Zalando SE operates an online platform for fashion and lifestyle products. The company operates through Fashion Store and Offprice segments. It provides shoes, apparel, accessories, and beauty products with free delivery and returns, as well as various payment options. Zalando SE Fundamentals Summary How do Zalando's earnings and revenue compare to its market cap? ZAL fundamental statistics Market cap €7.49b Earnings ( TTM) €204.10m Revenue ( TTM) €10.33b Earnings &amp; Revenue Key profitability statistics from the latest earnings report (TTM) ZAL income statement ( TTM) Revenue €10.33b Cost of Revenue €6.20b Gross Profit €4.13b Other Expenses €3.93b Earnings €204.10m Last Reported Earnings Sep 30, 2024 Next Earnings Date Mar 06, 2025 Earnings per share (EPS) 0.79 Gross Margin 40.00% Net Profit Margin 1.98% Debt/Equity Ratio 34.3% How did ZAL perform over the long term? See historical performance and comparison Company Analysis and Financial Data Status Data Last Updated (UTC time) Company Analysis 2025/01/16 18:33 End of Day Share Price 2025/01/16 00:00 Earnings 2024/09/30 Annual Earnings 2023/12/31 Data Sources The data used in our company analysis is from S&amp;P Global Market Intelligence LLC. The following data is used in our analysis model to generate this report. Data is normalised which can introduce a delay from the source being available. * example for US securities, for non-US equivalent regulatory forms and sources are used. Unless specified all financial data is based on a yearly period but updated quarterly. This is known as Trailing Twelve Month (TTM) or Last Twelve Month (LTM) Data. Learn more here. Analysis Model and Snowflake Details of the analysis model used to generate this report is available on our Github page, we also have guides on how to use our reports and tutorials on Youtube. Learn about the world class team who designed and built the Simply Wall St analysis model. Industry and Sector Metrics Our industry and section metrics are calculated every 6 hours by Simply Wall St, details of our process are available on . Analyst Sources Zalando SE is covered by 63 analysts. 27 of those analysts submitted the estimates of revenue or earnings used as inputs to our report. Analysts submissions are updated throughout the day. Analyst Institution Oliver Lester Arete Research Services LLP Rocco Strauss Arete Research Services LLP Volker Bosse Baader Helvea Equity Research