---
title: I recommend these Bose headphones for traveling and commuting - and every color is $80 off
url: https://www.zdnet.com/article/bose-quietcomfort-ultra-deal-2025-12-3/
published_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.910649
collected_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.910734
source: Zdnet
source_url: https://www.zdnet.com
author: Written by Jada Jones, Editor March 14, 2025 at 1:38 p.m. PT
description: Jada Jones/ZDNET If you're ready to upgrade to premium headphones with great sound, superb noise-canceling, and all-day comfort, I recommend the Bose QuietComfort Ultra headphones. They're my top pick for over-ear headphones  and noise-canceling headphones, and you can get them on sale at Amazon,...
language: en
---

# I recommend these Bose headphones for traveling and commuting - and every color is $80 off

*By Written by Jada Jones, Editor March 14, 2025 at 1:38 p.m. PT*

Jada Jones/ZDNET If you're ready to upgrade to premium headphones with great sound, superb noise-canceling, and all-day comfort, I recommend the Bose QuietComfort Ultra headphones. They're my top pick for over-ear headphones  and noise-canceling headphones, and you can get them on sale at Amazon,...

Jada Jones/ZDNET If you're ready to upgrade to premium headphones with great sound, superb noise-canceling, and all-day comfort, I recommend the Bose QuietComfort Ultra headphones. They're my top pick for over-ear headphones  and noise-canceling headphones, and you can get them on sale at Amazon, Best Buy, and Bose. Even better, every colorway is on sale (excluding Deep Plum) and will stay on sale until March 30. Also: Why these Bose headphones are still the best I've listened to - even though they're a year old Usually, these headphones retail for $429, making this deal worth considering. The QuietComfort Ultra are newer than Sony's WH-1000XM5 and Apple's AirPods Max, making their $349 discounted price a steal. I wear the QuietComfort Ultra headphones most days of the week when working at my desk, watching movies, and listening to music. If you frequently travel, commute, work at a desk, study in public areas, or need quiet time away from the bustling world around you, Bose's best-in-class active noise canceling (ANC) technology won't disappoint. I've tried many noise-canceling headphones, and none can hold a candle to the QuietComfort Ultra's ANC tech, including those from Sony and Apple. Also: The 13 best headphones of 2025 Not to mention, Bose puts the comfort in QuietComfort, as the QuietComfort Ultra headphones sport thick, breathable vegan leather padded ear cups for optimal comfort.  If you like spatial audio, Bose debuted its Immersive Audio technology in the QuietComfort Ultra headphones. This tech allows you to make any song multidimensional, regardless of your streaming service or listening device. The QuietComfort Ultra headphones boast improved call clarity, advanced Bluetooth codecs, seamless Bluetooth multipoint connectivity, and an intuitive companion app. Their stylish and durable aluminum build means they'll blend with any outfit you put together and survive short drops when you're out and about. The QuietComfort Ultra have a 24-hour battery life, which isn't the longest you'll find. However, the way these headphones excel in every other category makes up for needing to plug them in a few times a week. Review: Bose QuietComfort Ultra If you've heard bad things about Bose's sound quality, the QuietComfort Ultra will change your mind. These headphones are the best from Bose, offering deep, immersive bass and clear highs that aren't too piercing. I enjoy listening to all music genres with these headphones, and I regularly watch movies and listen to podcasts, too. The Bose Music app houses many personalization features that can tweak your audio depending on your listening. The companion app also offers noise-canceling personalization and settings to alter microphone quality and reduce wind interference. Suppose you're looking for headphones with future-proof features, enjoyable sound, superior noise-canceling, a stylish design, and an insane amount of comfort. In that case, you won't regret investing in the Bose QuietComfort Ultra. How I rated this deal Although the current sale price isn't the lowest I've seen these headphones, the sale's longevity is a major plus. Additionally, these headphones are some of the best you can buy. They are premium in almost every way, making an almost $100 discount worth it. According to Bose, this deal will expire from its website on March 30. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at  ZDNET.com.  
 Show more
 We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals are chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also:  How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025 
 Show more
 ZDNET Recommends