---
title: Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) latest stock news and headlines – Yahoo Finance
url: https://nz.finance.yahoo.com/quote/BABA/news/
published_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.913300
collected_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.913380
source: Nz
source_url: https://nz.finance.yahoo.com
description: NYSE - Nasdaq Real Time Price USD Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) Compare 132.70 +0.47 +(0.36%) At close: 1 April at 4:00:02 pm GMT-4 133.15 +0.45 +(0.34%) After hours: 1 April at 7:59:59 pm GMT-4 Alibaba Group Holding (BABA): Among the Best Very Cheap Stocks to Buy According to Billionaires...
language: en
---

# Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) latest stock news and headlines – Yahoo Finance

NYSE - Nasdaq Real Time Price USD Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) Compare 132.70 +0.47 +(0.36%) At close: 1 April at 4:00:02 pm GMT-4 133.15 +0.45 +(0.34%) After hours: 1 April at 7:59:59 pm GMT-4 Alibaba Group Holding (BABA): Among the Best Very Cheap Stocks to Buy According to Billionaires...

NYSE - Nasdaq Real Time Price USD Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) Compare 132.70 +0.47 +(0.36%) At close: 1 April at 4:00:02 pm GMT-4 133.15 +0.45 +(0.34%) After hours: 1 April at 7:59:59 pm GMT-4 Alibaba Group Holding (BABA): Among the Best Very Cheap Stocks to Buy According to Billionaires We recently published a list of 10 Best Very Cheap Stocks to Buy According to Billionaires In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other best very cheap stocks to buy according to billionaires. Coming off 2 years of healthy broader market performance (~26% total return […] Insider Monkey 8 hours ago BABA ^GSPC Jim Cramer: “Alibaba (BABA) CEO Joe Tsai Doesn’t Get It!” – AI Hype Reality Check We recently published a list of Jim Cramer Says I’m With Trump &amp; Discusses These 12 Stocks. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other stocks that Jim Cramer discusses. In a recent appearance on CNBC’s Squawk on the Street, Jim Cramer commented […] Insider Monkey 12 hours ago BABA Alibaba prepares for flagship AI model release as soon as April, Bloomberg News reports The new release may arrive later in April, although the exact timing could still change, the report said. Alibaba did not immediately respond to Reuters' request for comment. AI companies have been releasing new products at a feverish pace in recent months, as competition has piled up after the meteoric rise of China's DeepSeek earlier this year. Reuters 16 hours ago BABA Etsy Plunges 28% in a Year: Should You Hold or Fold the Stock? ETSY plans initiatives to improve GMS in 2025, but weakening consumer discretionary spending suggests that investors can wait for better entry points in the year. Zacks 17 hours ago ETSY BABA Is Alibaba Group Holding (BABA) the Top Growth Stock in David Tepper’s Portfolio? We recently published a list of Top 10 Growth Stocks in David Tepper’s Portfolio. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other top growth stocks in David Tepper’s Portfolio. Buy “everything” related to China has been David Tepper’s investment theme despite the uncertainties […] Insider Monkey 18 hours ago BABA ^GSPC Alibaba Group (BABA) Strengthens AI Investments with Improved Cloud Revenue Projections We recently published a list of Top 8 AI News Updates on Wall Street’s Radar. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other top AI news updates on Wall Street’s radar. As xAI’s Grok became the top app on the Google Play Store, […] Insider Monkey yesterday BABA Alibaba (BABA) Stock Drops Despite Market Gains: Important Facts to Note The latest trading day saw Alibaba (BABA) settling at $132.23, representing a -0.15% change from its previous close. Zacks yesterday BABA ^GSPC Is Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) the Debt Free Halal Stock to Invest in Right Now? We recently published a list of 10 Debt Free Halal Stocks to Invest in Right Now. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other debt free halal stocks to invest in right now. Debt-Free Halal Stocks to Invest in Amid High Interest Rates […] Insider Monkey yesterday BABA Alibaba Group Holding (BABA): Ant Group Combines US and Chinese Chips for AI Efficiency We recently published a list of Top 9 AI News Updates Investors Probably Missed. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other top AI news updates investors probably missed. Artificial intelligence (AI) has been termed humanity’s most significant invention in recent years. Others […] Insider Monkey yesterday BABA Best &amp; Worst ETF Zones of Q1 We have highlighted three ETFs, each from the best and worst-performing zones in the first quarter of 2025. Zacks yesterday BABA Here is What to Know Beyond Why Alibaba Group Holding Limited (BABA) is a Trending Stock Zacks.com users have recently been watching Alibaba (BABA) quite a bit. Thus, it is worth knowing the facts that could determine the stock's prospects. Zacks yesterday BABA Alibaba, Baidu Stocks Fall as Chinese Tech Enters Correction Territory. What’s Hitting Shares. Chinese stocks fell Monday as the index slid into correction territory amid heightened market uncertainty prompted by the Trump administration’s tariff policy. The Hang Seng Tech index tracks some of mainland China’s largest technology firms listed in Hong Kong such as search engine provider Baidu, e-commerce giants Alibaba and JD.com, and game developer Tencent The index closed down 2% Monday and has thereby dropped 11% since its recent peak on March 18. Baidu stock dropped 2.4% ahead of the open. Barrons.com yesterday BIDU BABA TCEHY Alibaba.com Records Double-Digit Order Growth in the USA During March Expo Alibaba.com, a leading platform for global business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce, has recorded a 27% year-on-year increase* in the number of orders placed by US SME buyers during this year's March Expo. PR Newswire yesterday BABA BABAF Alibaba (BABA) Sets New AI Benchmark with Qwen2.5-Omni-7B Multimodal Model! We recently published a list of Top 9 AI Ratings and News Updates on Wall Street’s Radar. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other top AI ratings and news updates on Wall Street’s radar. Despite AI’s potential to transform our lives for […] Insider Monkey 3 days ago BABA Alibaba (BABA) Teams Up with BMW for AI-Driven Cars – A Tech Revolution on Wheels! We recently published a list of 9 AI News and Ratings on Investors’ Radar. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other AI news and ratings on investors’ radar. According to a Reuters report posted on March 25, Chinese AI firms have made […] Insider Monkey 3 days ago BABA Is Alibaba Group (BABA) the Best ADR Stock to Buy According to Hedge Funds? We recently compiled a list of the 12 Best ADR Stocks to Buy According to Hedge Funds. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against the other best ADR stocks. American Depositary Receipts (ADR) are US-listed securities that represent shares in foreign companies, allowing […] Insider Monkey 4 days ago BABA CoreWeave Stock Bounces Around After Nvidia-Backed AI Firm Scaled Back IPO The CoreWeave IPO priced at $40 a share, well below the official range. The Nvidia-backed cloud-computing startup tests demand for AI stocks. Investor's Business Daily 4 days ago BABA BABAF NVDA Alibaba Deepens Partnership With BMW in China: Time to Buy the Stock? BABA's BMW deal showcases its AI edge. Triple-digit AI growth and smart investments position it for dominance. A must-buy tech stock for 2025's AI revolution. Zacks 4 days ago BABA Trending tickers: Lululemon, Rivian, Alibaba, Ubisoft and WH Smith The latest investor updates on stocks that are trending on Friday Yahoo Finance UK 4 days ago ^FTSE GBPEUR=X GBP=X Was Jim Cramer Right About Alibaba Group (BABA)? We recently published a list of Was Jim Cramer Right About These 13 Stocks? In this article, we are going to take a look at where Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE:BABA) stands against other stocks that Jim Cramer discussed. In the most recent episode of Mad Money, Jim Cramer shared his thoughts on how the […] Insider Monkey 5 days ago BABA Performance overview Trailing total returns as of 2/04/2025, which may include dividends or other distributions. Benchmark is HANG SENG INDEX (^HSI) Return BABA HANG SENG INDEX (^HSI) YTD +57.73% +15.53% 1-year +84.79% +36.88% 3-year +24.69% +5.16%