---
title: GDOT's Earnings and Revenues Surpass Estimates in Q1
url: https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/gdots-earnings-and-revenues-surpass-estimates-q1
published_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.429903
collected_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.429975
source: Nasdaq
source_url: https://www.nasdaq.com
author: Zacks
description: Green Dot Corporation  GDOT reported impressive first-quarter 2025 results. Earnings and revenues beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate. Quarterly earnings per share (excluding 59 cents from non-recurring items) of $1.06 outpaced the consensus estimate by 51.4% and improved 79.7% from the...
language: en
---

# GDOT's Earnings and Revenues Surpass Estimates in Q1

*By Zacks*

Green Dot Corporation  GDOT reported impressive first-quarter 2025 results. Earnings and revenues beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate. Quarterly earnings per share (excluding 59 cents from non-recurring items) of $1.06 outpaced the consensus estimate by 51.4% and improved 79.7% from the...

Green Dot Corporation  GDOT reported impressive first-quarter 2025 results. Earnings and revenues beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate. Quarterly earnings per share (excluding 59 cents from non-recurring items) of $1.06 outpaced the consensus estimate by 51.4% and improved 79.7% from the year-ago quarter. Revenues of $556 million beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 10.2% and increased 23% on a year-over-year basis. 
 Green Dot Corporation Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise Green Dot Corporation price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | Green Dot Corporation Quote Green Dot’s Segmental Revenues B2B Services revenues increased 41.8% in the first quarter of 2025 to $342 million. This segment’s revenue growth was fueled by a BaaS partner and stability across the BaaS portfolio.  Money Movement Services’ revenues improved 7% from the year-ago quarter to $110.3 million. Growth was impacted by a slight dip in Money Processing, while Tax Processing saw revenue growth. The Consumer Services segment’s revenues amounted to $95.3 million, down 5.6% on a year-over-year basis. Declines continue to remain largely driven by secular headwinds in the Retail channel, partially offset by the impact of the recent launch of PLS. GDOT’s Key Metrics GDOT’s gross dollar volume increased 5.6% from the year-ago quarter to $37.3 billion. Purchase volume fell 0.7% year over year to $5.1 billion. The company ended the quarter with $3.6 million in active accounts, down 2.5% on a year-over-year basis. 
 Green Dot’s Operating Results Adjusted EBITDA totaled $90.6 million, increasing 24% on a year-over-year basis. The adjusted EBITDA margin plummeted 310 basis points to 16.3%. Balance Sheet &amp; Cash Flow of GDOT Green Dot exited the first quarter with an unrestricted cash and cash equivalent balance of $1.8 billion compared with $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2024. GDOT had no long-term debt. It generated $108.7 million of cash from operating activities. The company’s capital expenditure was $109.3 million. Guidance GDOT has provided its 2025 guidance for total operating revenues to range between $2 and $2.1 billion. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for the same is pegged at $1.89 billion. Adjusted earnings per share guidance is the band of $1.14-$1.28, up from its previous guidance range of $1.05-$1.20. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pegged at $1.11 per share. Adjusted EBITDA is anticipated to be in the band of $150-$160 million, up from its previous guidance range of $145 million-$155 million. Green Dot currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see  the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. 
 Earnings Snapshot Fiserv, Inc.   FI reported mixed first-quarter 2025 results. The company’s earnings beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate, while revenues missed the mark. FI’s adjusted earnings per share of $2.14 beat the consensus mark by 2.9% and gained 13.8% year over year. Adjusted revenues of $4.8 billion lagged the consensus estimate by 1.6% but rose 5.5% on a year-over-year basis. (See the Zacks Earnings Calendar to stay ahead of market-making news.) The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.  IPG reported mixed first-quarter 2025 results. The company’s earnings topped the Zacks Consensus Estimate, while revenues missed the mark. IPG’s adjusted earnings of 33 cents per share surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 10% but decreased 8.3% from the year-ago quarter. Revenues before billable expenses (net revenues) of $2 billion missed the consensus estimate by a slight margin and declined 20% year over year. Total revenues of $2.3 billion decreased 7.2% year over year but outpaced the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $2 billion. 
 Zacks' Research Chief Names "Stock Most Likely to Double" 
 
 Our team of experts has just released the 5 stocks with the greatest probability of gaining +100% or more in the coming months. Of those 5, Director of Research Sheraz Mian highlights the one stock set to climb highest. 
 
 This top pick is among the most innovative financial firms. With a fast-growing customer base (already 50+ million) and a diverse set of cutting edge solutions, this stock is poised for big gains. Of course, all our elite picks aren’t winners but this one could far surpass earlier Zacks’ Stocks Set to Double like Nano-X Imaging which shot up +129.6% in little more than 9 months. Free: See Our Top Stock And 4 Runners Up Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (The) (IPG) : Free Stock Analysis Report Green Dot Corporation (GDOT) : Free Stock Analysis Report Fiserv, Inc. (FI) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.