---
title: PUMA grows currency-adjusted sales 4.4% in 2024 and provides outlook for 2025
url: https://about.puma.com/en/newsroom/corporate-news/2025/12-03-2025-puma-grows-currency-adjusted-sales-44-2024-and-provides
published_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.912681
collected_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.912761
source: About
source_url: https://about.puma.com
description: "Herzogenaurach, 12 March 2025
 
 
 PUMA grows currency-adjusted sales 4.4% in 2024 and provides outlook for 2025
 
 
 Fourth Quarter 2024 Sales grew currency-adjusted (ca) by 9.8% to € 2,289.4 million (+15.5% reported), showing an improvement throughout the year. Sales growth came from all..."
language: en
---

# PUMA grows currency-adjusted sales 4.4% in 2024 and provides outlook for 2025

Herzogenaurach, 12 March 2025
 
 
 PUMA grows currency-adjusted sales 4.4% in 2024 and provides outlook for 2025
 
 
 Fourth Quarter 2024 Sales grew currency-adjusted (ca) by 9.8% to € 2,289.4 million (+15.5% reported), showing an improvement throughout the year. Sales growth came from all...

Herzogenaurach, 12 March 2025

PUMA grows currency-adjusted sales 4.4% in 2024 and provides outlook for 2025

Fourth Quarter 2024 Sales grew currency-adjusted (ca) by 9.8% to € 2,289.4 million (+15.5% reported), showing an improvement throughout the year. Sales growth came from all regions, product divisions, and distribution channels. As anticipated, currencies shifted from a headwind to a tailwind in the fourth quarter. Sales in the EMEA region increased by 14.6% (ca) to € 796.5 million, driven by double-digit growth in Europe and EEMEA. In the Americas region, sales increased by 6.5% (ca) to € 986.3 million with both North America and Latin America contributing to the growth. Latin America’s growth during the quarter, however, was impacted by backlog constraints from warehouse operations in the previous quarter. The Asia/Pacific region recorded sales growth of 9.5% (ca) to € 506.6 million, reflecting stronger growth when compared to the first nine months of 2024 despite an ongoing softness in Greater China.  PUMA’s  Wholesale business grew by 6.9% (ca) to € 1,525.8 million. The emphasis on sell-through in the first half of 2024 laid the foundation for increased sell-in during the second half of 2024. Our Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) business grew by 16.1% (ca) to € 763.5 million, which is in line with the year-to-date trend and reflects the continued brand momentum. Sales in owned &amp; operated retail stores increased 12.8% (ca), while e-commerce grew 22.0% (ca). Consequently, the DTC share rose to 33.4%, up from 31.6% in Q4 2023. Sales in Footwear increased by 9.2% (ca) to € 1,214.8 million, driven by growth in Performance, primarily in the Running category, and in Sportstyle driven by Core and Kids business. Additionally, the elevated Sportstyle Select business also contributed to the growth. Sales in  Accessories grew by 14.5% (ca) to € 338.0 million and Apparel increased by 8.8% (ca) to € 736.5 million. The gross profit margin  improved by 30 basis points to 47.3% (Q4 2023: 47.0%). Currency effects and sourcing were a tailwind in the quarter, although this was partially offset by a generally more promotional environment.  Operating expenses (OPEX) increased by 15.8% to € 982.2 million (Q4 2023: € 848.0 million). The increase was primarily driven by a lower base resulting from the Argentine peso devaluation in the previous year's quarter, an increased DTC share, and investments in infrastructure. The OPEX ratio increased by 10 basis points to 42.9% (Q4 2023: 42.8%). The operating result (EBIT)  increased by 15.3% to € 108.9 million (Q4 2023: € 94.4 million) due to sales growth and gross profit margin improvement. The EBIT margin came in at 4.8% (Q4 2023: 4.8%). The  financial result improved by 35.1% to € -43.5 million (Q4 2023: € -67.1 million). This improvement was mainly driven by a lower base in the fourth quarter last year, which was impacted by negative conversion effects from valuation losses related to the devaluation of the Argentine peso.  Tax expenses increased to € 20.7 million (Q4 2023: € 4.9 million) and the tax rate was at 31.7% (Q4 2023: 18.0%) mainly due to a different regional profit mix and adjustments in tax rates. Consequently, net income came in at € 24.5 million (Q4 2023: € 0.8 million) and earnings per share amounted to € 0.16 (Q4 2023: € 0.01). 
 
 Full Year 2024 Sales increased by 4.4% (ca) to € 8,817.2 million, supported by growth in all regions, product  divisions and distribution channels (+2.5% reported). As anticipated, currencies were a major headwind in 2024, negatively impacting sales in euro terms by approximately € 150 million. The Americas  region recorded the highest growth with sales increasing by 7.0% (ca) to € 3,536.0 million, driven by both Latin America and North America. This was followed by the Asia/Pacific region, which recorded a sales increase of 3.8% (ca) to € 1805.5 million. All major markets within Asia/Pacific, including Greater China, Japan, and India, contributed to this growth. The EMEA region also saw a sales increase of 2.1% (ca), reaching € 3,475.7 million, driven by Europe and EEMEA. PUMA’s Wholesale  business grew by 0.4% (ca) to € 6,391.8 million due to a strong focus on sell-through in the first half of 2024, setting up for better sell-in in the second half of 2024. The Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) business increased by 16.6% (ca) to € 2,425.4 million, driven by brand demand and the opening of new stores. Owned &amp; operated retail stores sales grew 14.2% (ca), while e-commerce increased 21.1% (ca). This resulted in a DTC share of 27.5% (FY 2023: 24.8%). Sales in Footwear increased by 5.4% (ca) to € 4,733.6 million. This was driven by growth in the Sportstyle Core and Kids business as well as Performance categories, mainly Running and Teamsport. Meanwhile, Sportstyle Prime remained in transition throughout 2024. Apparel  grew by 3.7% (ca) to € 2,813.9 million, led by the Teamsport business, while Accessories increased by 2.0% (ca) to € 1269.7 million.  The gross profit margin  increased by 100 basis points to 47.4% (FY 2023: 46.3%). Headwinds from currencies and promotional activities were more than offset by a favourable product and distribution channel mix as well as tailwinds from sourcing and freight.  Operating expenses (OPEX) increased by 5.2% to € 3,580.2 million (FY 2023: € 3,403.5 million), mainly due to growth in our DTC business and investments in warehouse and digital infrastructure.Consequently, the OPEX ratio increased by 100 basis points to 40.6% (FY 2023: 39.6%). The operating result (EBIT)  came in at € 622.0 million which is at last year’s level (FY 2023: € 621.6 million). This resulted in an EBIT margin of 7.1% (FY 2023: 7.2%), as gross profit margin improvements were offset by increased OPEX. The financial result decreased by 11.4% to € -159.7 million (FY 2023: € -143.3 million) mainly due to an increase in net interest expenses and higher currency related losses. Tax expenses increased by 1.9% to € 120.0 million (FY 2023: € 117.8 million) and the tax rate was at 25.9% (FY 2022: 24.6%). Net income attributable to non-controlling interests increased to € 60.7 million (FY 2023: € 55.7 million) as a result of improved profits in the socks and bodywear business in the U.S. Consequently, n et income decreased by 7.6% to € 281.6 million (FY 2023: € 304.9 million) and earnings per share amounted to € 1.89 (FY 2023: € 2.03). 
 
 Working Capital The working capital increased by 8.6% to € 1,278.2 million (31 December 2023: € 1,177.3 million). Inventories increased by 11.6% to € 2,013.7 million (31 December 2023: € 1,804.4 million), driven by a strong increase in goods in transit to serve the new product cycle in 2025. The Group's total inventory remains at adequate levels, while quality has further improved.  Trade receivables increased by 11.5% to € 1,246.5 million (31 December 2023: € 1,118.4 million). Trade payables  increased by 26.2% to € 1,893.5 million (31 December 2023: € 1,499.8 million) due to an increase in goods in transit and a lower comparison base in the prior year. Cash Flow and Liquidity Situation The free cash flow increased by 25.8% to € 464.3 million in 2024 (FY 2023: € 369.0 million). On 31 December 2024, PUMA had  cash and cash equivalents of € 368.2 million, a decrease of 33.4% compared to 2023 (31 December 2023: € 552.9 million). Net borrowings on 31 December 2024 were € 119.8 million, up € 100.7 million from € 19.1 million on 31 December 2023. This increase is mainly driven by share buybacks, higher lease liability payments, and interest expenses partially offset by the improved free cash flow. In addition, the PUMA Group had  credit lines totalling € 1,842.9 million as of 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: € 1,552.8 million). Credit lines rose by € 290.1 million due to an extended revolving credit facility until December 2029, which increased from € 800 million to € 1,200 million.  Unutilised credit lines were at € 1,360.2 million on the balance sheet date compared to € 986.1 million at the end of 2023.   Capital Expenditure Investments in fixed assets decreased to € 263.0 million (FY 2023: € 300.4 million), driven by an increased focus to optimise the return on capital employed. In 2024, investments focused on owned &amp; operated retail stores, warehouse and digital infrastructure to enable future growth.    Share Buyback &amp; Dividend Upon approval of the proposed dividend by the Annual General Meeting and in line with its policy, PUMA will have returned in total 50% of the net income to its shareholders through dividends and share buybacks in the financial year 2024. The share buyback programme announced by PUMA SE on 29 February 2024 began on 06 March 2024. As of 31 December 2024, a total of 1,128,961 shares were repurchased for € 50 million at an average price of € 44.29 per share, representing 0.75% of the subscribed capital and 17.8% of the Group’s net income in the financial year 2024.  In total, under the current programme, PUMA plans to buy back own shares for up to € 100 million between 06 March 2024 and 06 May 2025. The net income of € 281.6 million in the financial year 2024 and the execution of € 50 million from the share buyback programme, enables the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of PUMA SE to propose to the Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2025 the distribution of a dividend of € 0.61 per share for the financial year 2024 (FY 2023: € 0.82). This corresponds to a dividend payout ratio of 32.2% (FY 2023: 40.3%) of the Group’s net income and is in line with the dividend policy payout ratio of 25% - 40%. The payment of the dividend is scheduled for the days following the Annual General Meeting when the dividend will be approved.    Strategy Update As we continue to operate in a challenging and volatile environment, which is expected to weigh on consumer sentiment and demand in key markets, we will fully focus on our controllables. This includes executing our brand elevation strategy to create the foundation for sustainable and accelerated growth, further improving our distribution quality, and taking decisive actions with our next level programme to address our cost basis. With our high organizational agility, we feel well prepared to manage the increased volatility of the market, react quickly to changing conditions, and find the best solutions to serve our retail partners, consumers, and brand ambassadors. 
 
 Outlook 2025 In 2024, PUMA achieved sales growth across all regions and product divisions and improved its gross profit margin, while the operating result (EBIT) remained stable. PUMA focused on its strategic priorities of brand elevation to improve its full price realization in the future and on building the foundation for sustainable growth by strengthening its performance business and building consumer relevance in the Sportstyle Prime market.  In 2025, PUMA anticipates that geopolitical tensions and macroeconomic challenges will continue, especially trade disputes and currency volatility, which is expected to weigh on consumer sentiment and demand in key markets. Against this backdrop, PUMA expects  currency adjusted sales to grow in the  low- to mid-single-digit   percentage range in the financial year 2025. While the environment remains volatile and challenging, the company will continue to focus on its controllables, executing its brand elevation strategy and taking decisive actions to address its cost basis with its nextlevel programme. The nextlevel cost efficiency programme is expected to incur one-time costs of up to € 75 million in 2025, which are related to the closure of unprofitable owned &amp; operated retail stores, restructuring expenses and other one-time non-operating costs. In return, the company expects to generate additional EBIT of up to € 100 million in 2025.  The net contribution from the nextlevel cost efficiency programme to EBIT in 2025 is projected to be up to € 25 million. In order to provide a reliable outlook for the underlying performance of the business, the company provides an adjusted EBIT outlook for 2025, excluding one-time costs. Considering the one-time costs and net contribution from the nextlevel programme, continued investments in marketing, retail stores and infrastructure, PUMA expects an adjusted EBIT in the range of € 520 million to € 600 million for the financial year 2025 (2024: € 622.0 million).  PUMA plans to continue investing in its retail store network and e-commerce business, along with warehouse and digital infrastructure, to enable its long-term growth objectives and therefore anticipates capital expenditures (CAPEX) of around € 300 million in 2025 (2024: € 263.0 million).