---
title: Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights SPY, QQQ, Tesla, Microsoft and Nvidia
url: https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/zacks-investment-ideas-feature-highlights-spy-qqq-tesla-microsoft-and-nvidia
published_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.910126
collected_date: 2025-05-31T00:00:18.910217
source: Nasdaq
source_url: https://www.nasdaq.com
author: Zacks
description: For Immediate Release Chicago, IL – March 7, 2025 – Today, Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights S&amp;P 500 Index ETF SPY, Nasdaq 100 Index ETF QQQ, Tesla TSLA, Microsoft MSFT and Nvidia NVDA. Are Tariff Concerns Overblown? Trump Tariffs Shake US Stock Market Though Donald Trump was...
language: en
---

# Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights SPY, QQQ, Tesla, Microsoft and Nvidia

*By Zacks*

For Immediate Release Chicago, IL – March 7, 2025 – Today, Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights S&amp;P 500 Index ETF SPY, Nasdaq 100 Index ETF QQQ, Tesla TSLA, Microsoft MSFT and Nvidia NVDA. Are Tariff Concerns Overblown? Trump Tariffs Shake US Stock Market Though Donald Trump was...

For Immediate Release Chicago, IL – March 7, 2025 – Today, Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights S&amp;P 500 Index ETF SPY, Nasdaq 100 Index ETF QQQ, Tesla TSLA, Microsoft MSFT and Nvidia NVDA. Are Tariff Concerns Overblown? Trump Tariffs Shake US Stock Market Though Donald Trump was merely a civilian at the time (albeit very famous), he has been voicing concerns about how countries like Japan, China, and Germany have taken advantage of soft U.S. trade policies for years. Now, in his second presidential term, Trump is acting on his intuition and promises to his voters to hit countries back with retaliatory tariffs to stop the flow of fentanyl, bring trade imbalances to an equilibrium, and return America to the manufacturing powerhouse it once was. 
 Thus far, Wall Street is taking a dim view of the tariff policy. The S&amp;P 500 Index ETF is down 5% over the past month, volatility is increasing, and intraday headlines from Trump and his economic advisors are causing “tape bombs” that swing the market violently intraday. Though the market action has been ugly in reaction to the tariffs in the short-term, are investors overreacting? Pullbacks are Normal, Even in Bull Markets The S&amp;P 500 Index has gained ~40% since the bear market bottom in October 2022. That said, experienced investors understand that markets do not move in a straight line. For instance, there have been multiple 5% corrections over the course of the current bull market and nearly 100 since 1950! Perhaps investors were looking for a reason to sell, and tariffs were that reason. Election Seasonality Suggested a Correction Was Likely Over the past few years, historical seasonality patterns have been one of the most valuable and accurate means of predicting the market’s next move. Even before the tariffs were announced, the post-election seasonality pattern suggested that Q1 equity weakness was likely. The good news is that this weakness typically subsides, and markets bottom more often in the back half of March than any other time of year. Historical Precedent: Déjà vu? Meanwhile, investors can rely on historical precedent. After all, Trump was president and implemented tariffs before. 200-Day Moving Average Since the 2022 lows, the entire bull market has been contained above the 200-day moving average. Though Nasdaq 100 Index ETF has visited the 200-day several times, each time the market has found support. Will this time be different? 
 Volatility Above the 200-Day MA Can Be Bullish Ryan Detrick, Chief Market Strategist at Carson Investment Research, made an interesting discovery: “Historically, when the S&amp;P 500 has experienced five consecutive days of 1% moves while remaining above its 200-day MA (like it is now), it has performed well over the following six months, averaging an 11.0% gain and rising 91.7% of the time.” Rate Cut Odds on the Rise The Trump Administration has been lobbying for lower interest rates for months. Though the U.S. Federal Reserve acts independently, recent rate cut odds suggest that the Trump tariffs may force Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s hand. Rate cut chances for May are at 54% and climbing. Potential Tariff Resolution Though Trump says he wants to leave tariffs on permanently, I prefer to watch for what a person does rather than what they say. Trump is likely using tariffs as a bargaining chip to get better trade deals for the U.S. Meanwhile, signs of potential resolutions are emerging. Earlier, Trump said: “After speaking with President Claudia Sheinbaum of Mexico, I have agreed that Mexico will not be required to pay tariffs on anything that falls under the USMCA Agreement. This agreement is until April 2 nd. I did this as an accommodation and out of respect for President Sheinbaum. Our relationship has been a very good one, and we are working hard together on the border, both in terms of stopping illegal aliens from entering the United States and likewise, stopping fentanyl. Thank you, President Sheinbaum, for your hard work and cooperation!” 
 The softer rhetoric between rival nations is a welcome sign for investors. Lower Valuations Investors have been complaining for years now that tech stocks like Tesla and Microsoft have seen valuations get too bloated. However, a silver lining is that the recent market pullback will lead to more attractive valuations. For instance, Nvidia has its lowest P/E ratio since the bull market began. Bottom Line The Trump tariffs may have been the spark that caused a market pullback. However, several data points suggest that the market correction may be short-lived and that tariff concerns are overdone. Why Haven't You Looked at Zacks' Top Stocks? Since 2000, our top stock-picking strategies have blown away the S&amp;P's +7.7% average gain per year. Amazingly, they soared with average gains of +48.4%, +50.2% and +56.7% per year. Today you can access their live picks without cost or obligation. 
 See Stocks Free &gt;&gt; Media Contact Zacks Investment Research 800-767-3771 ext. 9339 support@zacks.com https://www.zacks.com Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&amp;P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release. 
 Just Released: Zacks Top 10 Stocks for 2025 
 
 Hurry – you can still get in early on our 10 top tickers for 2025. Handpicked by Zacks Director of Research Sheraz Mian, this portfolio has been stunningly and consistently successful. From inception in 2012 through November, 2024, the Zacks Top 10 Stocks gained + 2,112.6%, more than QUADRUPLING the S&amp;P 500’s +475.6%. Sheraz has combed through 4,400 companies covered by the Zacks Rank and handpicked the best 10 to buy and hold in 2025. You can still be among the first to see these just-released stocks with enormous potential. 
   See New Top 10 Stocks &gt;&gt; Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) : Free Stock Analysis Report NVIDIA Corporation (NVDA) : Free Stock Analysis Report Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) : Free Stock Analysis Report Invesco QQQ (QQQ): ETF Research Reports SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF (SPY): ETF Research Reports This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.