---
title: Alliant Energy to Release Q4 Earnings: Here's What to Expect - FastBull
url: https://www.fastbull.com/news-detail/alliant-energy-to-release-q4-earnings-heres-what-news_7300_0_2025_1_141078_3
published_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.433423
collected_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.433485
source: Fastbull
source_url: https://www.fastbull.com
description: Alliant Energy LNT is scheduled to release fourth-quarter 2024 results on Feb. 20, after market close. The company delivered a negative earnings surprise of 19.7% in the last reported quarter. See the Zacks Earnings Calendar to stay ahead of market-making news. Let’s discuss the factors that are...
language: en
---

# Alliant Energy to Release Q4 Earnings: Here's What to Expect - FastBull

Alliant Energy LNT is scheduled to release fourth-quarter 2024 results on Feb. 20, after market close. The company delivered a negative earnings surprise of 19.7% in the last reported quarter. See the Zacks Earnings Calendar to stay ahead of market-making news. Let’s discuss the factors that are...

Alliant Energy LNT is scheduled to release fourth-quarter 2024 results on Feb. 20, after market close. The company delivered a negative earnings surprise of 19.7% in the last reported quarter. See the Zacks Earnings Calendar to stay ahead of market-making news. Let’s discuss the factors that are likely to be reflected in the upcoming quarterly results. Key Factors That Might Have Impacted LNT's Q4 Performance In September 2024, the IUC issued an order authorizing annual base rate increases of $185 million for Alliant Energy’s subsidiary Interstate Power and Light Company’s (“IPL”) retail electric customers, and $10 million for IPL’s retail gas customers, for October 2024 through September 2025. This is likely to have boosted the top line in the to-be-reported quarter. In November 2024, Alliant Energy placed two solar projects with a combined capacity of 200 megawatts (MW) into service. The150-MW Wever Solar Project in Lee County is the largest solar project in Iowa. Together with the 50-MW Creston Solar Project in Union County, the company expects the projects to generate enough electricity to power approximately 40,000 homes annually. These projects are likely to have enhanced earnings in the fourth quarter. The company’s quarterly earnings are also expected to have continued to benefit from its capital investments. However, higher depreciation expenses and financing costs might have also offset some positives in the fourth quarter. LNT’s Q4 Expectations The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pegged at 68 cents per share, indicating a year-over-year improvement of 41.7%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues is pinned at $1.20 billion, implying a year-over-year increase of 24.4%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for total utility electric sales retail is pinned at 5,917.96 thousand megawatt-hours (MWh), down 0.3% year over year. The consensus mark for total electricity delivered is pegged at 7,627.53 MWh, up 0.2% year over year. What Our Quantitative Model Predicts Our proven model does not conclusively predict an earnings beat for Alliant Energy this time around. The combination of a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) increases the odds of an earnings beat. That is not the case here as you will see below. Alliant Energy Corporation Price and EPS Surprise Alliant Energy Corporation price-eps-surprise | Alliant Energy Corporation Quote Earnings ESP: The company’s Earnings ESP is 0.00%. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they’re reported with our Earnings ESP Filter. Zacks Rank: Currently, Alliant Energy carries a Zacks Rank #3. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here. Stocks to Consider Investors may consider the following players from the same industry as these have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat this reporting cycle. OGE Energy OGE is likely to come up with an earnings beat when it reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 19. It has an Earnings ESP of +2.41% and a Zacks Rank #2 at present. OGE’s long-term (three to five years) earnings growth rate is 5.92%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pinned at 48 cents per share, which implies a year-over-year increase of 100%. CenterPoint Energy CNP is likely to come up with an earnings beat when it reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20. It has an Earnings ESP of +0.63% and a Zacks Rank #2 at present. CNP’s long-term earnings growth rate is 7.12%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pinned at 40 cents per share, which implies a year-over-year increase of 25%. Vistra VST is likely to come up with an earnings beat when it reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 27. It has an Earnings ESP of +3.81% and a Zacks Rank #2 at present. VST’s long-term earnings growth rate is 23.05%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pinned at $1.14 per share, which implies a year-over-year increase of 337.5%. Zacks Investment Research Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation. Dj Ibd: Nuclear Stocks Surged Last Year. Are They A -2 Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation. Dj Ibd: Nuclear Stocks Surged Last Year. Are They A Buy Amid Deepseek Concerns With Earnings Upcoming? Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation. PPL's Q4 Earnings Lag Estimates, Revenues Increase Y/Y PPL Corporation PPL reported fourth-quarter 2024 operating earnings per share (EPS) of 34 cents, which missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 37 cents by 8.1%. In the year-ago quarter, earnings were 40 cents per share. On a GAAP basis, PPL recorded EPS of 24 cents compared with 15 cents in the year-ago quarter. Find the latest EPS estimates and surprises on Zacks Earnings Calendar. PPL’s Revenues Total revenues of $2.21 billion surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $2.09 billion by 5.6%. The top line increased 8.9% from the year-ago figure of $2.03 billion. Full-year 2024 revenues totaled $8.46 billion compared with $8.31 billion last year. PPL Corporation Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise PPL Corporation price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | PPL Corporation Quote Highlights of PPL’s Q4 Release In the fourth quarter, the company sold 15,859 gigawatt hours of electricity to its customers in Pennsylvania and Kentucky, reflecting 1% year-over-year growth. Total operating expenses were $1.83 billion, up 11.5% from the year-ago quarter’s $1.64 billion. This was due to an increase in fuel, energy purchases and other operation and maintenance expenses. Operating income totaled $377 million, down 3.3% from the year-ago figure of $390 million. Interest expenses amounted to $189 million, up 9.9% from $172 million in the corresponding period of 2023. PPL’s Segmental Updates Pennsylvania Regulated: Adjusted EPS was 20 cents, flat year over year. Kentucky Regulated: Adjusted EPS was 17 cents, flat year over year. Rhode Island Regulated: Adjusted EPS was 2 cents, down 60% from the year-ago figure of 5 cents. Lower distribution and transmission revenues and other factors affected earnings. Corporate and Other: The segment incurred a loss of 5 cents per share compared with a loss of 2 cents in the year-ago quarter. PPL’s Financial Position As of Dec. 31, 2024, PPL had cash and cash equivalents of $306 million compared with $331 million as of Dec. 31, 2023. The long-term debt was $15.9 billion as of Dec. 31, 2024, compared with $14.6 billion as of Dec. 31, 2023. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2024 was $2.34 billion compared with $1.76 billion last year. PPL’s Guidance PPL expects 2025 earnings to be in the range of $1.75-$1.87 per share. The Zacks Consensus Estimate is pegged at $1.83 per share, higher than the midpoint of the company’s guided range. The company reaffirmed its long-term annual earnings growth rate in the range of 6-8% through 2028. It raised its guidance for planned infrastructure investments to $20 billion for 2025-2028 compared to the prior plan of $14.3 billion for 2024-2027. Management continues to expects O&amp;M savings to be at least $150 million by 2025. PPL’s Zacks Rank PPL currently has a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. Upcoming Releases IDACORP IDA is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20, before market open. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pegged at 63 cents per share, which suggests a year-over-year increase of 3.3%. IDA’s long-term (three to five years) earnings growth rate is 8.35%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for 2024 earnings is pinned at $5.42 per share, which implies a year-over-year improvement of 5.5%. Alliant Energy LNT is slated to report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20, after market close. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pegged at 68 cents per share. LNT’s long-term earnings growth rate is 6.75%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for fourth-quarter sales is pinned at $1.20 billion. Pinnacle West Capital Corporation PNW is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 25, before market open. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pegged at a loss of 15 cents per share. PNW’s long-term earnings growth rate is 5.58%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for 2024 earnings is pinned at $5.13 per share, which implies a year-over-year improvement of 16.3%. Zacks Investment Research Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation. Entergy Gears Up to Report Q4 Earnings: What's in the Cards? Entergy Corporation ETR is scheduled to release fourth-quarter 2024 results on Feb. 18, before market open. Find the latest EPS estimates and surprises on Zacks Earnings Calendar. This utility company delivered an earnings surprise of 2.75% in the last reported quarter. However, Entergy has a trailing four-quarter negative earnings surprise of 4.81%, on average. Let’s discuss the factors that are likely to affect the upcoming quarterly results. Factors to Consider Ahead of ETR’s Results Entergy’s service territories witnessed above-normal weather patterns for the majority of the fourth quarter. This is likely to have hurt electricity demand from its customers for heating purposes this winter, thereby adversely affecting the company’s top-line performance. Nevertheless, higher industrial sales, primarily driven by a large new customer in Louisiana, strong customer growth and favorable rate outcomes witnessed in prior quarters, are likely to have bolstered ETR’s overall revenues. Some parts of its service areas witnessed hail and tornadoes during the fourth quarter, which are likely to have caused outages for some of ETR’s customers and also brought damage to its infrastructure. This is likely to have pushed up the company’s operating expenses for repair and restoration of its damaged infrastructure, which, in turn, is expected to have hurt its bottom-line performance to some extent. However, solid revenue expectations, benefits of increasing customer interest in ETR’s renewable projects and favorable returns from its prior capital investment in infrastructural upgrades are likely to have boosted its overall quarterly earnings. Entergy Corporation Price and EPS Surprise Entergy Corporation price-eps-surprise | Entergy Corporation Quote Q4 Expectations for Entergy The Zacks Consensus Estimate for ETR’s sales is pegged at $3.03 billion, which indicates year-over-year growth of 11%. The consensus estimate for earnings per share is pegged at 63 cents, which indicates year-over-year increase of 142.3%. What Our Model Predicts for Entergy Our proven model does not conclusively predict an earnings beat for Entergy this time around. The combination of a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) increases the odds of an earnings beat, which is not the case here as seen below. Earnings ESP: The company’s Earnings ESP is -0.78%. You can uncover the best stocks before they’re reported with our Earnings ESP Filter. Zacks Rank: The company currently carries a Zacks Rank of 3. You can see the complete list of Zacks Rank #1 stocks here. Stocks to Consider Investors can consider the following players from the same industry, which have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat in their quarterly results. OGE Energy OGE is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter 2024 results on Feb. 19, before market open. It has an Earnings ESP of +2.41% and a Zacks Rank of 2 at present. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for sales is pegged at $672.5 million, which indicates an 18.7% improvement from the year-ago quarter’s figure. The consensus estimate for earnings is pinned at 48 cents per share, which indicates year-over-year growth of 100%. CenterPoint Energy CNP is scheduled to announce its fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20, before market open. It has an Earnings ESP of +0.63% and a Zacks Rank of 2 at present. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for sales is pegged at $2.28 billion, which indicates a 4.6% improvement from the year-ago quarter’s figure. The consensus estimate for earnings is pinned at 40 cents per share, which indicates year-over-year growth of 25%. Vistra Corporation VST is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter results on Feb. 27, before market open. It has an Earnings ESP of +3.81% and a Zacks Rank of 2 at present. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for its sales is pegged at $4.38 billion, which indicates a 42.3% improvement from the year-ago quarter’s figure. The consensus estimate for earnings is pinned at $1.14 per share, which indicates a significant improvement from the previous year quarter’s figure. Zacks Investment Research Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation. American Water Works to Release Q4 Earnings: Here's What to Expect American Water Works AWK is scheduled to release fourth-quarter 2024 results on Feb. 19, after market close. The company delivered a negative earnings surprise of 2.2% in the last reported quarter. See the Zacks Earnings Calendar to stay ahead of market-making news. Let’s discuss the factors that are likely to be reflected in the upcoming quarterly results. Major Factors That Might Have Impacted AWK's Q4 Performance In October 2024, Pennsylvania American Water, a subsidiary of American Water Works, completed the purchase of the Butler Area Sewer Authority wastewater system for $230 million. The newly acquired wastewater should add more than 15,000 customer connections. Moreover, during the first nine months of 2024, the company made five acquisitions, which added 33,400 new customers. The demand from the expanded customer base is likely to have boosted fourth-quarter earnings. American Water Works generates nearly 100% of its net income from regulated operations. The new rate, effective in the previous quarters, is expected to have contributed positively in the to-be-reported quarter. Q4 Expectations for AWK The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pegged at $1.13 per share, implying a year-over-year increase of 28.4%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues is pinned at $1.08 billion, indicating an increase of 4.5% from the year-ago reported number. What Our Quantitative Model Predicts Our proven model does not predict an earnings beat for American Water Works this time around. The combination of a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) increases the odds of an earnings beat. That is not the case here, as you will see below. American Water Works Company, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise American Water Works Company, Inc. price-eps-surprise | American Water Works Company, Inc. Quote Earnings ESP: The company’s Earnings ESP is 0.00%. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they’re reported with our Earnings ESP Filter. Zacks Rank: Currently, American Water Works carries a Zacks Rank #2. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here. Stocks to Consider Investors may consider the following players from the same sector as these have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat this reporting cycle. OGE Energy OGE is likely to come up with an earnings beat when it reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 19. It has an Earnings ESP of +2.41% and a Zacks Rank #2 at present. OGE’s long-term (three to five years) earnings growth rate is 5.92%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pinned at 48 cents per share, which implies a year-over-year increase of 100%. CenterPoint Energy CNP is likely to come up with an earnings beat when it reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20. It has an Earnings ESP of +0.63% and a Zacks Rank #2 at present. CNP’s long-term earnings growth rate is 7.12%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pinned at 40 cents per share, which implies a year-over-year increase of 25%. Vistra VST is likely to come up with an earnings beat when it reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 27. It has an Earnings ESP of +3.81% and a Zacks Rank #2 at present. VST’s long-term earnings growth rate is 23.05%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings is pinned at $1.14 per share, which implies a year-over-year increase of 337.5%. Zacks Investment Research Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation. Press Release: Greater Houston Resiliency Initiative Phase Two Update: Centerpoint Energy Continues Delivering Progress By Deploying 750 Automated Reliability Devices In January And Progressing Toward Goal Of 4500 By June 1, 2025, Technology Will Help Re Risk Warnings and Disclaimers You understand and acknowledge that there is a high degree of risk involved in trading. Following any strategies or investment methods may lead to potential losses. The content on the site is provided by our contributors and analysts for information purposes only. You are solely responsible for determining whether any trading assets, securities, strategy, or any other product is suitable for investing based on your own investment objectives and financial situation.