---
title: Newsroom | Business Wire
url: https://www.businesswire.com/newsroom?industry=1000091
published_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.433124
collected_date: 2025-05-28T13:21:52.433182
source: Businesswire
source_url: https://www.businesswire.com
description: - Ulta Beauty Names Lauren Brindley Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer BOLINGBROOK, Ill.--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Ulta Beauty, Inc. (NASDAQ: ULTA) today announced the appointment of Lauren Brindley as Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer effective June 3, 2025. Brindley succeeds Monica Arnaudo...
language: en
---

# Newsroom | Business Wire

- Ulta Beauty Names Lauren Brindley Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer BOLINGBROOK, Ill.--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Ulta Beauty, Inc. (NASDAQ: ULTA) today announced the appointment of Lauren Brindley as Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer effective June 3, 2025. Brindley succeeds Monica Arnaudo...

- Ulta Beauty Names Lauren Brindley Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer BOLINGBROOK, Ill.--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Ulta Beauty, Inc. (NASDAQ: ULTA) today announced the appointment of Lauren Brindley as Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer effective June 3, 2025. Brindley succeeds Monica Arnaudo who will retire in June. As Chief Merchandising and Digital Officer, Brindley will have executive responsibility for Ulta Beauty’s merchandising, ecommerce, wellness, and marketplace strategies, while also leading the company’s assortment brand building strategy. “Providing our... - - Hudson’s Bay Company to Launch Separate Auction for Art and Historical Artifacts TORONTO--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Hudson’s Bay Company ULC (Hudson’s Bay or the Company), as part of its ongoing restructuring under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA), today announced that subject to court approval, it intends to conduct a dedicated auction (the “Art Auction”) for the sale of its most historically significant art and artifacts. Recognizing the extraordinary cultural and historical value of these items—including the Company’s Royal Charter and other artifacts deeply intert... - Winmark Corporation Announces First Quarter Results MINNEAPOLIS--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Winmark Corporation (Nasdaq: WINA) announced today net income for the quarter ended March 29, 2025 of $9,956,400 or $2.71 per share diluted compared to net income of $8,819,000 or $2.41 per share diluted in 2024. First quarter results included $2.2 million of leasing income due to the settlement of outstanding customer litigation. “The run-off of our leasing portfolio announced in May of 2021 is substantially complete,” commented Brett D. Heffes, Chair and Chief Ex... - UNICSKIN Integrates Perfect Corp.’s AI Skin Analysis to Personalize LED Mask Recommendations Online NEW YORK--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Perfect Corp. (NYSE: PERF), a global leader in augmented reality (AR) and artificial intelligence (AI) beauty and fashion tech, has teamed up with Spanish Techno-Beauty brand UNICSKIN to enhance the online skincare experience through advanced AI-powered skin assessments. The integration brings Perfect Corp.’s AI Skin Analysis technology to UNICSKIN’s e-commerce platform, offering shoppers personalized LED mask recommendations based on their real-time skin condition. T... - Vince Holding Corp. Names Yuji Okumura Chief Financial Officer NEW YORK--( BUSINESS WIRE)--Vince Holding Corp., (NYSE: VNCE) (“VNCE” or the “Company”), a global contemporary retailer, today announced that Yuji Okumura, the company's interim Chief Financial Officer since March 2025 and Controller since September 2020 has been named Chief Financial Officer, effective April 14, 2025. Brendan Hoffman, Chief Executive Officer of VNCE, said, “Yuji's tenure with our company, his leadership and strong financial expertise are the attributes that we need as we begin... - - Beyoncé and Levi’s® Launch Chapter 3 with REIIMAGINE: Refrigerator SAN FRANCISCO--( BUSINESS WIRE)--The Levi’s® brand, in collaboration with global icon Beyoncé, today debuted Refrigerator, the third chapter of the REIIMAGINE campaign. In the new film and accompanying imagery, Levi’s® continues to highlight the brand’s heritage as inspiration for reinvention. The first two chapters, Launderette and Pool Hall, reignited conversations around Levi’s® legacy, with Launderette’s subversive take on the brand’s classic ad and Pool Hall paying homage to Levi’s® deep ti... - The 2025 Macy’s Flower Show ® Will Bloom This May, Only at Macy’s NEW YORK--( BUSINESS WIRE)--The 2025 Macy’s Flower Show®, starring YSL BEAUTY, returns to Macy’s iconic New York City Herald Square flagship, inviting guests to experience Surrealist Gardens and mesmerizing floral displays between Sunday, April 27 and Sunday, May 18. Leading up to Mother’s Day and celebrating 50 years, Macy’s Flower Show will expand to three full weeks, offering customers a holistic experience through a limited-edition Flower Show collection, immersive events and exclusive deals...