---
title: European Parliament approves simplifications to CBAM procedures suggested by European Commission
url: https://globaltaxnews.ey.com/news/2025-1154-european-parliament-approves-simplifications-to-cbam-procedures-suggested-by-european-commission
published_date: 2025-05-29T08:03:19.403000
collected_date: 2025-05-31T08:03:20.792014
source: Globaltaxnews
source_url: https://globaltaxnews.ey.com
description: 29 May 2025 European Parliament approves simplifications to CBAM procedures suggested by European Commission On 22 May 2025, the European Union (EU) Parliament approved the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) Omnibus I simplification package proposed by the European Commission. No amendments...
language: en
collection_type: policy_landscape
---

# European Parliament approves simplifications to CBAM procedures suggested by European Commission

29 May 2025 European Parliament approves simplifications to CBAM procedures suggested by European Commission On 22 May 2025, the European Union (EU) Parliament approved the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) Omnibus I simplification package proposed by the European Commission. No amendments...

29 May 2025 European Parliament approves simplifications to CBAM procedures suggested by European Commission On 22 May 2025, the European Union (EU) Parliament approved the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) Omnibus I simplification package proposed by the European Commission. No amendments to the European Commission draft have been implemented. Next, the legislation needs to be negotiated and finalized with the European Council.   On 22 May 2025, the European Parliament expressed its approval of the European Union (EU) Omnibus I Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) simplification package. On 26 February 2025, the EU Commission proposed simplifications to the CBAM regulation to reduce administrative burdens for businesses, while maintaining the functionality of the CBAM measure. The key aspect of the proposal is a new exemptions threshold of 50 tons for certain CBAM goods per year per importer. This new threshold would exempt 90% of current importers from the CBAM declarant application process. Despite this reduction in the threshold value, 99% of the emissions from CBAM-covered goods would remain in the scope of regulation. (For details, see EY Global Tax Alert, European Commission releases Omnibus Package I proposal to simplify EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism regulation, dated 3 March 2025.) After the vote, rapporteur Antonio Decaro (S&amp;D, IT) said: "The CBAM is a crucial instrument to help the EU prevent carbon leakage and incentivise climate action outside the EU. I am therefore glad that Parliament decided not to reopen other provisions of the CBAM legislation. This approach enables us to simplify matters for companies without dismantling or weakening the CBAM. We will continue to work quickly to bring legal clarity and certainty to all CBAM stakeholders." Next, the European Parliament will negotiate the final form of the legislation with the European Council. Subsequently, the publication of the final regulation can be expected in the Official Journal of the European Union. The regulation provides clarity for EU operators subject to the CBAM regulation. In particular, all the importers of CBAM goods (except electricity, hydrogen) that do not exceed the 50-ton exemption threshold will be relieved of CBAM obligations (except indirect representatives declaring CBAM goods). This change will alleviate significant administrative burdens for qualifying EU operators. Further, the proposed procedural simplifications will relax the process for declaring CBAM. Nonetheless, it remains to be seen whether representatives of the EU Member States (EU Council) will negotiate amendments. In any case, this year (2025) multiple additional legal acts are expected to provide details on the CBAM regulation. For example, a legal act that would expand the goods subject to CBAM is expected at the end of 2025. As soon as the range of goods is expanded, a large number of businesses can be expected to return to the CBAM scheme. The CBAM should become a top priority, even for businesses that are not yet affected or anticipate qualifying under the CBAM exemption rules if they import goods that typically are produced in an emissions-heavy environment. Businesses will need to focus on CBAM education, build capacity to manage CBAM processes and plan for CBAM from a business-strategy perspective, CBAM's expansion and increased cost could have a significant effect on competitiveness. Planning and optimization opportunities include using special customs procedures or strategic procurement of low(er) carbon goods. * * * * * * * * * * Contact Information For additional information concerning this Alert, please contact: Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (EU jurisdictions) Richard J. Albert, Leipzig, Germany | richard.j.albert@de.ey.com Jeroen Scholten, Amsterdam, Netherlands | jeroen.scholten@nl.ey.com Christina Horckmans, Diegem, Belgium | christina.horckmans@be.ey.com Marguerite Trzaska, Paris, France | marguerite.trzaska@ey-avocats.com Alessandra di Salvo, Rome, Italy | alessandra.di.salvo@it.ey.com Pedro Gonzalez-gaggero Prieto-carreño, Madrid, Spain | pedro.gonzalez-gaggero@es.ey.com Amilcar Nunes, Lisbon, Portugal | amilcar.nunes@pt.ey.com Colin Doolin, Dubin, Ireland | colin.doolin@ie.ey.com Eduard Kurz, Vienna, Austria | eduard.kurz@at.ey.com Slawomir Czajka, Warsaw, Poland | slawomir.czajka@pl.ey.com Aron Nagy, Budapest, Hungary | aron.nagy@hu.ey.com Milen Raikov, Sofia, Bulgaria | milen.raikov@bg.ey.com Mihai Petre, Bucharest, Romania | mihai.petre@ro.ey.com Stanislav Pokorny, Prague, Czech Republic | stanislav.pokorny@cz.ey.com Linnea Jacobsen, Stockholm, Sweden | linnea.jacobsen@se.ey.com Sanna Svensberg, Helsinki, Finland | sanna.svensberg@fi.ey.com Nikoletta Merkouri, Athens, Greece | nikoleta.merkouri@gr.ey.com George Liasis, Nicosia, Cyprus | george.liasis@cy.ey.com Vasil Milev, Zagreb, Croatia | vasil.milev1@hr.ey.com Tonis Elling, Tallinn, Estonia | tonis.elling@ee.ey.com Agne Jablonskyte, Vilnius, Lithuania | agne.jablonskyte@lt.ey.com Ilona Butane, Riga, Latvia | ilona.butane@lv.ey.com Juraj Ontko, Bratislava, Slovakia | juraj.ontko@sk.ey.com Anka Pogacnik, Ljubljana, Slovenia | anka.pogacnik@si.ey.com Yulia Antipova, Luxembourg | yulia.antipova@lu.ey.com CBAM contacts for selected outside-EU jurisdictions Danny Vu, London, United Kingdom | danny.vu@uk.ey.com Ashish Sinha, Zurich, Switzerland | ashish.sinha@ch.ey.com Delphine Poirot, Oslo, Norway | delphine.c.poirot@no.ey.com Ilona van den Eijnde, New York, USA | ilona.eijnde@ey.com Duane Newman, Johannesburg, South Africa | duane.newman@za.ey.com Luke Branson, Sydney, Australia | luke.branson@au.ey.com Yoichi Ohira, Tokio, Japan | yoichi.ohira@jp.ey.com Mohammed Poonawala, Pune, India | mohammed.poonawala@in.ey.com Andy Leung, Shenzhen, China | andy-sy.leung@cn.ey.com Stefan Majerowski, Dubai, UAE | stefan.majerowski2@ae.ey.com Sercan Bahadir, Istanbul, Turkey | sercan.bahadir@tr.ey.com Miroslav Markovic, Belgrade, Serbia | miroslav.markovic@rs.ey.com CBAM Policy Advisory Kasia Klaczynska-Lewis, Warsaw, Poland | kasia.klaczynska.lewis@pl.ey.com Sustainability Tax Policy Alenka Turnsek, London, UK | alenka.turnsek@uk.ey.com Sarah Messer, London, UK | sarah.messer@uk.ey.com Published by NTD’s Tax Technical Knowledge Services group; Carolyn Wright, legal editor Document ID: 2025-1154